BCV - Jacobi without the implementation of SVD :

What is the goal?

First orthogonalize the main matrix A. Then approximate the singular values in column norms.
There is no full decomposition such as the SVD.

How it is implemented?

1. Matrix split into blocks 

2. Pick two blocks (they are stored into the matrix U).

3. Jacobi rotations (For each pair of columns in ğ‘ˆ, compute a Givens rotation (ğ‘,ğ‘ ) to reduce off-diagonal correlation.)
(Then apply it to those columns so that they become more orthogonal. This process is repeated for 2k-1 rounds to sweep through all pairs)

4. Store back (Replacing the two original blocks in ğ´ with the updated ones.)

5. Sweep loop (Iterating over all block pairs, repeating till converges)

6. Normalization (All columns of A are normalized, column norms approximate the singular values. Only left singular vectors are tracked).

BCV - Jacobi with SVD implementation :

What are the changes in the implementation ?

Until step 3 same process. Instead of store back here we rotations to V.

{Keep a global matrix ğ‘‰âˆˆğ‘…ğ‘›Ã—ğ‘› initialized as identity. For each Jacobi rotation on columns i,j, apply the same 2Ã—2 rotation to columns i,j of V.
After all sweeps: V accumulates the full product of Jacobi rotations â†’ right singular vectors.}

Then again the same Normalization.

The complexity comparision is as :

BCV is making into blocks updating all that process has O(m*n^2). Where as in the BCV-SVD the rotations are a huge task, So the additional 
comlexity of the rotation is added to the complexity of the BCV. That results to O(m*n^2 + n^3).

When compared the gprof reports the execution times for both versions was identical for smaller datasets. But when the dataset is 
much bigger the bcv-svd execution time was twice or thrice that of the bcv. 
The reason for that behaviour is that the bcv-svd involves a rotation function where the complexity n^3.


Based on these facts from the gprofiling the time consumption is very high in matrices in blocks and jacobi rotations, and also rotations
for the matrix V(in bcv-svd). But as of the BCV the code execution pattern is sequential and each of them is dependent on the previous 
result. whereas in the BCV-SVD algorithm we can parallelize the rotations using openMP and CUDA.

Though the BCV is faster in sequential it rather falls behind when methods like openMP and CUDA are used for parallelization.
As mentioned in reference paper the parallelized BCV Jacob SVd is faster than the original.

Other components are not being parallelizable due to their dependency to one or more factors.